% !TEX TS-program = lualatex
% !TEX encoding = UTF-8

\documentclass[11pt]{article} % use larger type; default would be 10pt

% usual packages loading:
\usepackage{fontspec}
\usepackage{graphicx} % support the \includegraphics command and options
\usepackage{geometry} % See geometry.pdf to learn the layout options. There are lots.
\geometry{letterpaper} % or letterpaper (US) or a5paper or....
\usepackage[autocompile]{gregoriotex} % for gregorio score inclusion
\usepackage{fullpage} % to reduce the margins
\usepackage{tabularx}

\begin{document}
\begin{center}\begin{huge}\textsc{In Nativitate Domini}\end{huge}\end{center}
\begin{center}\begin{huge}\emph{Missa In Die}\end{huge}\end{center}

\gregorioscore{in--puer_natus_est--solesmes}
\textbf{Isaias 9.~6}. A child is born to us, and a Son is given to us: whose
government is upon His shoulder: and His name shall be called, the Angel of
great counsel. \emph{Ps.~97.~1}. Sing ye to the Lord a new canticle: because He
hath done wonderful things.

\vskip10pt

\textsc{Collect}. Grant, we beseech Thee, almighty God, that the new birth of
Thine only-begotten Son in the flesh may set us free, who are held by the old
bondage under the yoke of sin. Through the same Jesus Christ our Lord, Thy Son,
who liveth and reigneth with Thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, God, through
all ages of ages. \Rbar{}. Amen.

\vskip10pt
  
\textsc{Epistle}. \textit{Hebr.~1.~1-12.} God, who, at sundry times and in
divers manners, spoke in times past to the fathers by the prophets, last of all,
in these days hath spoken to us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all
things, by whom also he made the world. Who being the brightness of his glory,
and the figure of his substance, and upholding all things by the word of his
power, making purgation of sins, sitteth on the right hand of the majesty on
high. Being made so much better than the angels, as he hath inherited a more
excellent name than they. For to which of the angels hath he said at any time,
Thou art my Son, today have I begotten thee? And again, I will be to him a
Father, and he shall be to me a Son? And again, when he bringeth in the first
begotten into the world, he saith: And let all the angels of God adore him. And
to the angels indeed he saith: He that maketh his angels spirits, and his
ministers a flame of fire. But to the Son: Thy throne, O God, is for ever and
ever: a sceptre of justice is the sceptre of thy kingdom. Thou hast loved
justice, and hated iniquity: therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the
oil of gladness above thy fellows. And: Thou in the beginning, O Lord, didst
found the earth: and the works of thy hands are the heavens. They shall perish,
but thou shalt continue: and they shall all grow old as a garment. And as a
vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed: but thou art the
selfsame, and thy years shall not fail.

\vskip10pt

\gregorioscore{gr--viderunt_omnes--solesmes}

\textbf{Ps.~97.~3, 4, 2}. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of
our God: sing joyfully to God, all the earth. \Vbar{}. The Lord hath made known
His salvation: He hath revealed His justice in the sight of the Gentiles.

\vskip10pt

\gregorioscore{al--dies_sanctificatus--solesmes}

A sanctified day hath shown upon us: come ye Gentiles and adore the Lord: for
this day a great light hath descended upon the earth.

\vskip10pt
  
\textsc{Gospel}. \textit{John 1.~1-14.} In the beginning was the Word, and the
Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God.
All things were made by him: and without him was made nothing that was made. In
him was life, and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in
darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. There was a man sent from God,
whose name was John. This man came for a witness, to give testimony of the
light, that all men might believe through him. He was not the light, but was to
give testimony of the light. That was the true light, which enlighteneth every
man that cometh into this world. He was in the world, and the world was made by
him, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him
not. But as many as received him, he gave them power to be made the sons of God,
to them that believe in his name. Who are born, not of blood, nor of the will of
the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And the Word was made flesh, and
dwelt among us, (and we saw his glory, the glory as it were of the only begotten
of the Father,) full of grace and truth.

\vskip10pt

\gregorioscore{of--tui_sunt_caeli--solesmes}

\textbf{Ps.~88.~12, 15}. Thine are the heavens, and Thine is the earth, the
world and the fulness thereof Thou has founded: justice and judgment are the
preparation of Thy throne.

\vskip10pt

\textsc{Secret}. Sanctify, O Lord, the gifts offered to Thee, by the new birth
of Thine only begotten Son: and cleanse us from the stains of our sins. Through
the same Jesus Christ our Lord, Thy Son, who liveth and reigneth with Thee, in
the unity of the Holy Spirit, God, through all ages of ages. Amen.

\vskip10pt

\gregorioscore{co--viderunt_omnes--solesmes}

\textbf{Ps.~97.~3}. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our
God.

\vskip10pt

\textsc{Post-Communion}. Grant, we beseech Thee, Almighty God, that as the
Saviour of the world, born on this day, is the Author of our heavenly birth, so
He may also be to us the Giver of immortality: Who liveth and reigneth with
Thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, God, through all ages of ages. \Rbar{}.
Amen.

\end{document}
